# **IAM : USERS & GROUPS**

1. IAM = stands for **Identity and access management** it is a **global service** because in IAM, we
   are going to create our users and assign them to group.
2. **root** accounts created by default, shouldn't be used or shared.
3. Users are people within your organization, and can **be grouped.**
   NOTE: Groups only contain users.
4. **Users don't have to belong to a group,** and user can belong to **multiple groups.**

# **WHY DO WE CREATE USERS AND WHY DO WE CREATE GROUPS?**

Because, we want to allow them to use our AWS accounts and to allow them to do so, we have to give them permissions.

# **IAM: PERMISSIONS**

- Users or Groups can be assigned JSON documents called policies.
- These policies define the permissions of the users.
- in AWS you apply the least privilege principle: don't give more permissions than a user needs.

  {
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement":[
  {
  "Effect":"Allow",
  "Action":"ec2:Describe*",
  "Resource":"*"
  },
  {
  "Effect":"Allow"
  "Action":"elasticloadbalancing:Describe*",
  "Resource":"*"
  },
  {
  "Effect":"Allow"
  "Action":[
  "cloudwatch:ListMetrics",
  "cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics",
  "cloudwatch:Describe*"
  ],
  "Resource":"\*"
  }
  ]
  }

# **IAM POLICIES INHERITANCE**

1. Example: We have a group of developers and we **attach** a policy at the group level.
   In that case **the policy will get applied to every single member of the group**, all they will get access and inherit this policy.
1. Now, if you have a second group with operations with a **different policy**, David and Edward will have a **different policy than the group of developers**.
1. If fred is a **user**, it has the possibility not to belong to a group, and we have the possibility to create what's called an **inline policy** which has a policy that's only attached to user.
   So that user could or could not belong to a group.
1. And finally, if **Charles and David both belong to another group called the Audit Team**, and you **attach a policy** to the audit team as well, **Charles and David will also inherit that policy from the audit team.**
   So in this case, **Charles has a policy from developers and a policy from audit team and david has a policy from audit team and a policy from the operation team.**

# **IAM POLICIES STRUCTURE**

1.  **CONSISTS OF** :

    - Version: Policy language version, always include "2012-10-17"
    - ID = an identifier for the policy (OPTIONAL)
    - Statement = One or more individual satements (REQUIRED)

2.  **STATEMENTS CONSISTS OF**

    - **SID** : An identifier for the statement (OPTIONAL)
    - **EFFECT** : Whether the statement allows or denies access (ALLOW, DENY)
    - **PRINCIPAL** : Account / user / role to which this policy applied to.
    - **ACTION** : List of actions this policy allows or denies.
    - **RESOURCE** : List of resources to which the actions applied to.
    - **CONDITIONS** : Conditions for when this policy is in effect (OPTIONAL)

3.  **IAM - PASSWORD POLICY**

    - **WHE CAN HAVE TWO DEFENSE MECHANISMS**

    - **FIRST:**
    - Strong Passwords = higher security for your account.
    - In AWS, you can setup a password policy:

      - Set a minimun password length.
      - Require sepecific character types:
        - Including uppercase letters.
        - Lowercase letters.
        - Numbers.
        - Non-alphanumeric characters.
      - Allow all IAM users to change their own passwords.
      - Require users to change their password after some time (password expiration).
      - Prevent password re-use.

      //IMPORTANT:

    - **SECOND:**
    - Users have access to your account and can possibly change configurations or delete resources in your AWS account.
    - You want to protect your Root Accounts and IAM users.
      -MFA = Password you know + security device you own.

           ALICE ===>  Password + MFA  => Successful login.

    - Main benefit of MFA:
      - If a password is stolen or hacked, the account is not compromised.

4.  **MFA DEVICES OPTIONS IN AWS**

    - **VIRTUAL MFA DEVICE**
      - Google Authenticator **(Phone Only)**/ **Support for multiple tokens on a single divice**
      - Authy (multi-device) **(Phone and Computer)** / **Support for multiple tokens on a single divice**
      - Universal 2nd Factor (U2F) Security Key : YubiKey by Yubico (3rd Party) : Support for multiple root and IAM Users using a single security key.
      - Hardware Key Fob MFA Device = Provided by Gemalto (3rf party).
      - Hardware Key Fob MFA Device = for AWS GovCloud(US). Provided by SurePassID (3rd party).

//NOTE: Account Settings and then Change password policy.
//NOTE: User account and then your security credentials ==> multifactor authentication ==> acticate MFA.

5.  **HOW CAN USERS ACCESS AWS?**

    - To access AWS, you have three options:
      - AWS Management Console(protected by password + MFA)
      - AWS Command Line Interface **(CLI)** = Protected by access keys
      - AWS Software Developer Kit **(SDK)** = for code:protected by access keys
    - Access Keys are generated through the AWS Console
    - Users manage their own access keys
    - **Access keys are secret, just like a password. Dont't share them.**
    - Access Key ID ~= Username
    - Secret Access Key ~= Password

    **What's the AWS CLI?**

    - A tool that enables you to interact with AWS services using commands in your command-line shell.
    - Direct access to the public APIs of AWS services.
    - You can develop scripts to manage your resources. (AUTOMATE SOME OF YOUR TASKS).
    - Alternative to using AWS Management Console.

//NOTE: Whenever you see some code where you type a command line, and then it returns a result, for example :
aws, s3, cp, and so on, this is what we call the CLI.
In this example we are using the CLI because we start every command by the word AWS.

````
=> ~ aws s3 cp myfile.txt s3://ccp-mybucket/myfile.txt
upload: ./myfile.txt to s3://ccp-mybucket/myfile.txt

      => ~ aws s3 ls s3://ccp-mybucket
      2021-05-14 03:22:52               0 myfile.txt
      => ~
    ```

    **What's the AWS SDK?**

    - AWS Software Development Kit **(AWS SDK)**
    - Language-specific APIs (set of libraries)
    - Enables you to access and manage AWS services programmatically
    - Embedded within your application
    - Supports
      - SDKs (Javascript, Python, PHP, .NET, Ruby, Java, Go, Node.js, C++)
      - Mobile SDKs (Embedded C, Arduino,...)
    - Example: AWS CLI is built on AWS SDK for Python

NOTE: Alternative for using the terminal to issue commands against AWS. And is using cloud shell.

     **CLOUD SHELL** = It's a terminal in the cloud of AWS.
     1. The good thing about using the CLI, for example:

        aws iam list-users

        this returns for yoy an API call.
     2. Full repository.

6. **IAM ROLES FOR SERVICES**

   - Some AWS service will need to perform actions on your behalf.
   - To do so, we will assign **Permissions** to AWS services with **IAM Roles**.
   - Common roles: EC2 Instance Roles.
   - Lambda Function Roles.
   - Roles for CloudFormation.

**For example** - We are going to create throughout this course, an EC2 instance, and EC2 Instance is just like a virtual server. But this EC2 instance may want to perform some actions on AWS, and to do so,
we need to give permissions to our EC2 Instance.

To do so : We are going to create an IAM Role and together. They are going to make one entity.
And together, once the EC2 instance is trying to access some information from AWS. then it will use the IAM ROLE and if the permission assigned to the IAM Role is correct, then we're going to get access to the call we're trying to make.

7. **IAM SECURITY TOOLS**

   - IAM Credentials Report (account-level)

     - A report that lists all your account's users and the status of their various credentials.

   - IAM Access Advisor(user-level)
     -Access advisor shows the service permissions granted to a user and when those services were last accessed.
   - You can use this information to revise your policies.

8. **IAM GUIDELINES & BEST PRACTICES**

   - Don't use the **root** account except for AWS account setup.
   - One physical user = One AWS user.
   - Assign users to groups and assign permissions to groups.
   - Create a strong password policy
   - Use and enforce the use of **Multi Factor Authentication (MFA)**
   - Create and use **Roles** for giving permisssions to AWS services.
   - Use Access Keys for Programmatic Access (CLI/SDK)
   - Audit permissions of your account with the IAM Credentials Report.
   - Never share IAM Users & Access Keys.

9. **SHARED RESPONSIBILITY MODEL FOR IAM**

   NOTE: **AWS**

   - Infrastructure (global network security).
   - Configuration and vulnerability analysis.
   - Compliance Validation.

   NOTE: **YOU**

   - Users, Groups, Roles, Policies management and monitoring.
   - Enable MFA on all accounts.
   - Rotable all your keys often.
   - Use IAM tools to apply appropriate permissions.
   - Analyze access patterns & review permissions.

//IMPORTANT: IAM SECTION - SUMMARY

- Users : mapped to a physical user, has a password for AWS console.
- Groups : Contains users only.
- Policies : JSON document that outlines permissions for users or groups.
- Roles L for EC2 instances or AWS services.
- Security : MFA + Password Policy.
- AWS CLI : manage your AWS services using the command-line.
- AWS SDK : manage your AWS services using a programming language.
- Access Keys: access AWS using the CLI or SDK.
- Audit: IAM Credential Reports & IAM Access Advisor.
````
