# **CLOUD INTEGRATIONS**

1. A company using Apache ActiveMQ is magrating to the cloud. Which AWS service can it use to easily set up and operate its message brokers in the cloud?

- SQS
- SNS
- MQ ===> Correct One.

        NOTE: Amazon MQ is a managed message broker service for Apache ActiveMQ and RabbitMQ that makes it easy to set up and operate message brokers in the cloud.

- Kinesis

2. Which service is a fully managed oub/sub messaging service that makes it easy to set up, operate, and send notifications from the cloud, using a push-based system?

- Simple Notification Service (SNS). ===> Correct One.

        NOTE: Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS) is a highly available, durable, secure, fully managed pub/sub messaging service that enables you to decouple microservices, distributed sustems, and serverless applications. It uses a push-based system.

- Simple Queue Service (SQS).
- Auto Scaling Groups (ASG).

3. You can use Kinesis to perform real-time analysis from video streams.

- True ===> Correct One.

        NOTE: Amazon Kinesis makes it easy to collect, process, and analyze real time, streaming data so you can get timely insights and react quickly to new information. Kinesis offers four services : Data Firehose, Data Analytics, Data Streams, Video Streams.

- False

4. Which principle is mainly applied when using Amazon SQS or Amazon SNS ?

- Scalability
- Automation
- Decouple your applications ===> Correct One.

        NOTE: When using SQS or SNS, you apply the "decouple your applications" principle. This means that IT systems should be designed in a way that reduces interdependencies a change or a failure in one component should not cascade to other components.

5. Which service allows you to send, store, and receive messages between software components at any volume, without losing messages or requiring other services to be available, using a pull based system?

- Simple Notification Service (SNS).
- Simple Queue Service (SQS). ===> Correct One.

        NOTE: Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) is a fully managed message queuing service that enables you to decouple and scale microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications. It uses a pull-based system.

- Auto Scaling Groups (ASG).
