# **AMAZON S3**

IMPORTANT:

1. Amazon S3 is one of the main building blocks of AWS.
2. It's advertised as "infinitely scaling" storage.
3. Many websites use Amazon S3 as a backbone.
4. Many AWS services uses Amazon S3 as an integration as well.
5. We'll have a step-by-step approach to S3.
6. The CCP exam requires "deeper" knowledge about S3.

**S3 USE CASES**

1. Backup and storage.
2. Disaster Recovery.
3. Archive.
4. Hybrid Cloud Storage.
5. Application Hosting.
6. Media Hosting.
7. Data lakes & big data analytics.
8. Software delivery.
9. Static Website.

**AMAZON S3 OVERVIEW - BUCKETS**

1. Amazon S2 allows people to store objects (files) in "buckets" (directories).
2. Buckets must have a globally unique name (across all regions all accounts).
3. Buckets are defined at the region level.
4. S2 looks like a global service but buckets are created in a region.
5. Naming convention.

   a. No uppercase.
   b. No underscore.
   c. 3-63 characters long.
   d. Not an IP.
   e. Must start with lowercase letter or number.

**AMAZON S2 OVERVIEW - OBJECTS**

1. Objects (files) have a **key**.
2. The **key** is the FULL path:
   a. s3://my-bucket/my_file.txt
   b. s3://my-bucket/my_folder/another_folder/my_file.txt

3. The **key** is composed of prefix + object name
   a. s2://my-bucket/my_folder/another_folder/my_file.txt
4. There's no concept of **"directories"** within buckets (although the UI will trick you to think otherwise).
5. Just **keys** with very long names that contain slashes ("/).
